Speaking of types there are two functions I'll quickly mention called Pass and parts float.
You may not use them all the time but there are situations where you have a string and you need to turn
it into a number.
So the string contains a number hopefully and you want to extract that number as a numeric value so
you can do math with it or do something numerical with it.
So Parsons is going to give us back it will return an integer.
You can see here pass it off the string twenty four gives us twenty four.
If we try it on a decimal the string twenty four point nine eight seven it stops at that period at the
decimal and it just gives us the integer part twenty four parts float does the same thing except it's
going to pass the entire float the entire decimal number of the string in the string.
So I can just quickly show you that if we do pass it let's say we ask the user to enter their age into
a form and they enter in twenty one pass and it's going to give us the actual number.
If we had twenty one and we wanted to add a year to it to indicate a birthday for that person that's
not going to work for us.
But if we pass out of the string 21 we can now add one and get twenty two and then we also have past
float which you could see from the slide if we pass in something like thirty three point five we'll
get back a number containing a decimal.
Now there are some weird situations like if you tried to pass it on a price dollar sign ninety nine.
It's going to give us not a number.
It does not like that dollar sign.
It's not expecting any non number characters any non digits in there.
And the same applies for parts float.
But if your string does contain a number at the beginning if it starts with a number like 99 cents.
If we had the words sense afterwards we actually will get the number ninety nine out of there.
So it's kind of odd if it detects a number at the beginning if the first character is a valid digit
then it will keep going until it can't go any further.
So if I had this we'll get all of that profile instead have a non digit character at the beginning it
gets messed up.
Also I can put spaces in there and it will be OK but as soon as I put other characters it gets confused
you probably won't be doing something like this with this particular string.
But it's common.
If a user enters something into a form this is one way of getting that string because form data comes
in as a string.
You could turn it into an actual number and do math with it and that's it.
Person parts float.